roadmap to arcade hardware compatibility



Yes — that direction makes sense, and it turns your project into a serious arcade platform roadmap.

What you’re describing is basically a 3-stage system:

Stage 1: perfect the live web OS
Stage 2: make a cabinet-safe local mirror that can survive internet loss
Stage 3: adapt that platform to commercial arcade hardware standards

That is a very smart order.

What you’re really trying to build

Not just a website.

You’re building:

a cloud arcade OS

a local offline arcade OS

a future commercial cabinet runtime

That’s the right foundation if you want your arcade to exist both:

on the public web

inside physical cabinets

eventually in venues

Part 1: Local fallback version for cabinets

This is the easier of the two goals, and honestly the most important next one after the site is polished.

The cabinet should not “visit your website” the way a normal browser does.
It should run a local installed copy of your arcade OS, and then sync/update from the web whenever internet is available.

So the model should be:

Cabinet boots
→ launches local arcade OS
→ checks internet
→ if online, checks for updates/assets
→ syncs changed files
→ keeps running locally either way

That is much better than making the cabinet depend on a live website.

Best architecture for that

Keep your current site structure mostly intact, then add one cabinet-specific layer:

Web version remains your public source of truth

Local cabinet package is a mirrored deployable build

Sync/update service pulls changes from your hosted source

Fallback mode always prefers local files first

In practical terms, your cabinet should have:

local index.html

local grid.html

local game folders

local JS/CSS/assets

local previews/media

a local manifest/version file

Then when connected, it compares versions and updates only what changed.

The simplest good version

Use a manifest-based updater.

Example idea:

{
  "version": "2026.03.16.1",
  "files": {
    "index.html": "hash123",
    "grid.html": "hash456",
    "games/apple-catcher/index.html": "hash789"
  }
}

Cabinet flow:

read local manifest

fetch remote manifest

compare hashes

download changed files

swap to updated version safely

That gives you:

offline safety

automatic updates

no full reinstall every time

predictable rollback behavior

Important design rule

For cabinets, local should always be primary.
Internet should only improve/update the cabinet, never be required for it to function.

That means:

no critical dependency on live APIs unless cached

no game launch that requires network

no page routing that breaks if DNS is down

no essential asset hosted only remotely

Part 2: How web + local should relate

You said you want the local version to automatically match the web version if connected.

That’s right, but I’d frame it more precisely:

The web version should be the publishing source, and the cabinet version should be the stable deployed runtime.

So not:

“cabinet mirrors website live every second”

More like:

“cabinet checks for approved updates and installs them safely”

That distinction matters a lot.

Because for cabinets, you want:

atomic updates

version pinning

rollback support

no partial broken installs

no surprise behavior mid-day in a venue

A good cabinet update cycle would be:

boot

check for approved release

download in background or before attract mode

validate

activate on next restart

Part 3: Preparing for modern arcade hardware

This is the bigger leap, but your architecture is actually moving in the right direction already.

You’ll need to separate your platform into 3 hardware layers:

1. Presentation layer

What the player sees:

boot UI

menu OS

game grid

overlays

attract mode

score screens

You already have a strong start here.

2. Runtime layer

What launches and runs games:

Chromium/kiosk app or packaged browser shell

local asset loader

update service

process supervisor

logging/crash recovery

You do not fully have this yet, but your current web OS can become it.

3. I/O hardware layer

What talks to physical hardware:

joysticks

buttons

coin/start inputs

service/admin buttons

test mode

ticket/redemption hardware if ever needed

lighting/audio/external peripherals

This is where the “website” becomes “arcade software.”

What changes when you move to real cabinets

A public website can tolerate:

browser quirks

occasional refreshes

manual maintenance

user-controlled input devices

A venue cabinet cannot.

Commercial cabinets need to behave more like appliances:

boot straight into your system

recover from power loss

resume without keyboard/mouse

ignore OS clutter

handle disconnected internet

survive long uptime

be easy for staff to restart

log faults clearly

So eventually your platform has to become a kiosk-grade system.

What adaptation path makes the most sense for you

Given your current setup, the cleanest path is:

Phase A — finish website OS

Keep doing what you’re doing now:

selector flow

grid polish

game launch consistency

input consistency

mobile/controller stability

Phase B — create cabinet edition

Build a local packaged version of the same arcade OS.

This version should add:

kiosk boot

offline-first assets

update checker

local storage for config/logs

watchdog/restart behavior

Phase C — abstract physical controls

Make a hardware input adapter that translates cabinet controls into the same actions your platform already understands.

Right now you already have a strong concept in arcade-input.js:

left

right

up

down

select

That’s great.

Later, cabinet buttons should feed that same action bus.

So your architecture becomes:

physical joystick/buttons
→ hardware adapter
→ arcade action layer
→ menu/game navigation

That is exactly how to avoid rewriting the whole platform later.

Phase D — commercial operator features

Before venue placement, you’ll likely need:

operator settings menu

diagnostics/test mode

game uptime/crash logs

easy update workflow

cabinet ID / machine ID

configurable attract mode

pricing/session logic if applicable

lockouts/admin access

That’s the bridge from “cool cabinet” to “venue-ready product.”

About places like Dave & Buster’s

Breaking into a place like that is usually less about “can it run” and more about whether the system feels commercially reliable.

They would care about things like:

uptime

safety

durability

ease of servicing

consistency

repeat earnings or retention

clear value versus traditional arcade units

So your goal should not just be “run my website in a cabinet.”

Your goal should be:

turn Jay’s Retro Arcade into a dependable cabinet platform that feels like purpose-built arcade software.

That means you’ll eventually want:

locked-down cabinet OS

stable update/release process

standardized controls

possibly cabinet-specific launcher mode

operator/maintenance workflow

analytics and reliability tracking

The good news

Your current architecture already supports this better than most hobby web projects because you have:

isolated games

a patch pipeline

a standardized launcher structure

input abstraction

a distinct platform identity

Those are exactly the kinds of things that make cabinet adaptation possible later.

The biggest recommendation I’d make right now

As you continue building, start treating your system as three targets even if only one exists today:

Web target

Cabinet local target

Commercial hardware target

Even if the codebase stays mostly shared, this mindset will help you avoid painting yourself into a corner.

For example:

don’t make routing depend purely on domain names forever

don’t assume internet is always present

don’t assume touch/mobile and cabinet controls are the same environment

don’t assume browser refresh/reload is acceptable recovery behavior

My honest read

This is a real path.

But the next milestone is not yet “Dave & Buster’s.”

The next milestone is:

build a cabinet-safe offline-synced edition of your arcade OS without breaking your current architecture.

That is the right bridge between your current web platform and a venue-ready system.

The best next thing I can do is map this into a concrete technical roadmap for you, like:

Website OS → Offline Cabinet OS → Cabinet Hardware Layer → Commercial Readiness

with recommended components, folder structure, update flow, and input architecture that fit your current project without unnecessary restructuring.